So we already know how to publish messages to rabbit.
Q exchanges knows time that we create our listener.
So how do you listen to messages programmatically with Jawa spring and rabbit.
Q Of course.
So for that purpose I'm going to create a new project
and again I'm going to be using spring initialiser and from there I'm going to say Come example and
rabbit listner project just like that.
And I'll hit next.
And from the dependencies I'm going to pick messaging and Rabbitt MQ just like that I'll hit next again
and I'm going to have my project create it.
I'm going to use a new window.
All right.
Intelligence and Maven is resolving our dependencies and it's already finished.
So now what do we need to create the message listener for rabbit named Q.
If you remember our slides back in our exchanges Qs and their definitions the Qs were the actual points
of interest for subscribers and consumers.
So when we publish a message that message goes to an exchange and that exchange has to be bounded to
a queue so that it could be sent from subscribers and consumers.
So with that information in mind we have to be listening to a cue for our messages.
We can't just listen to an exchange because the exchange is the actual pull of messages to be transferred
to cues and other messaging structures and rabbit.
Q So we have to build our foundation for listening to it.
Q rather than an exchange.
So for that purpose I have to first create a class for listening to messages.
The first incoming message point for our application and for that purpose I'm going to create a new
class and that class is the name of my listener and I'm going to say to be declarative I'm going to
say rabbit.
Q message.
Listener.
All right.
And for that class to work as a listener for rabbit Q I have to implement the message listener from
AM Cupie project offspring.
So let's just do that.
And
I'm going to have to override the on message method from message listener just like you saw with the
error message here.
And if we go all over it it says you have to implement the on message method which is abstract.
So let's go down and do that.
Now I'm going to override the method.
And here we go.
This all message method is going to be the initial point for our message when we receive it.
Man we configure our rabbit named Q For the cool listening we're going to be receiving our messages
right in this method.
Just like with soul with the message right here.
This parameter is going to be injected by spring and Cupie and a rabbit named q.
So we could try and process our message to just print out a message that we receive.
I'm going to use the system our print line just like we saw here.
And intelligence is helping me out there to print out the nice beautiful logging message.
And as you can see I can print out the message right away.
But since the rabbit is key using a byte array format for exchanging messages.
So in order to me to print out the message correctly as an actual string I have to wrap it around a
string.
So for that purpose I'm going to say new string and wrap the message around.
But as you remember from our previous slides rabbit MQ messages are not just simple messages.
They can be having a header under properties and an actual body for the content of the message.
So for that purpose again I'm going to get the body of the message.
Here we go.
All right.
Our message listener class is ready.
But how about the configuration for the Q and the connection to it.
How does my application knows where to listen.
So for doing that I'm going to create a configuration class for rabbit named Q and give it to name as
rabbit and q config.
All right this class is going to be handling all my connections to Q and the actual rabbit named Q Broecker.
So for that purpose and to be fruitful with our implementation I'm going to say this glass is a configuration
in the spring annotation way.
All right.
And what I have to do here is I have to define the queue did I want to listen to and I have to provide
the connection to that Q and I have to bind my connection with the Q And also the message listening
class that we just created.
Right.
All right.
So let's start by defining our Q for defining r.
Q I'm going to create a name for my queue first and I'm going to say final and string my Q
and I'm going to say my Q Just like that.
All right.
Let's use the name for our Q.
We're going to create.
For creating a Q There are of course several ways to do that.
You can use the Q annotation just like you see here which has some arguments that you can provide as
the name the durability exclusivity auto delete and other things but to a declarative and to be clear
as much as possible.
I'm going to create the bean for my cue and try to define my cue as that clarity was possible.
So I'll say I'm going to create a bean for spraying.
And from that bean I'm going to say I want to cue which is actually the cue annotation that I just included
is coming in way.
So I'm just removing the import statement and I'll say Q Which has to come from sping and keep the duck
core.
So this is what I want and I'll say my cue and now I'm going to create a Q Right.
In this method.
So for the Q. I'm going to return a new q.
The name of the Q is going to be of course my Q And the second argument for that Q constructor is actually
as you can see the durability.
So for durability I'm going to say true.
All right it's simple as that.
We just have a Q to be created in rabbit m q and take note of the word create it.
The beauty of rabit them Q and Q spring is right here.
So if we define a Q and created with the B.net notation bammy launch our application Our application
is going to create an actual queue for us in rabit named Q.
Isn't that beautiful.
In our previous videos remember that we created our cues from the dashboard of self.
You may not have access to your dashboard or maybe your administrators doesn't allow you to use it.
So in that case you can just programmatically create queues exchanges and everything about Rabbitte
named.
This is a very beautiful and declarative way to create queues and Xchange is so with that information
in mind.
Let's move on to creating our connection to our Rabbitt MQ Broecker.
So let's go down and also create a bean for our connection to our Rabbitt MQ Broecker and for that purpose
I'm going to use the connection factory
and with that connection factory I'm going to create the connection to my actual Broecker so to do that.
Let's create a caching connection factory because we want our connection to be stable and resilient
so that we don't have to open or close any connection.
Back and forth with the Broecker a rabbit named Q.
So I'm going to create a caching connection factory and I'll say a new question.
Connection factory.
And as the argument as the constructor argument for this method it has a method with hostname.
So in our case since we're running our rubidium queue in our local machine I can safely provide local
host.
So I'll say localhost alright.
And as you can see it's the hostname argument.
All right for the credentials.
I'm going to say set username.
I'm going to use the defaults the default username of course is guessed for rabid Q And for the password
again I'll say yes.
Just like that.
So far our being to be created I have to return our caching connection factory.
All right.
We have a problem.
And OK the connection factory that we need to use has to be coming from an Cupie itself.
We used an incorrect import.
So I'll just get rid of that.
I'll just get rid of the connection factory and I'm loving intelligent too.
Important for me.
All right.
So this has to be coming from AM keeping rabbit connection.
And here we go or find him one.
All right we have our qued declarant we have our connection to message broker to our Rabbitte name.
Q Now what is missing is that we have to create a message listener container so that we can bind all
those things.
The message listener class the connection factory and the queue.
So we can actually start listening to this.
Q All right I'll go down below here and I'm going to create a message listner container.
So again I'm going to use to be way and all say message listener container and I'm going to construct
my message listener container for my message listener container.
I don't have to provide lots of information so I can just use the simple message listener container.
Here we go.
And I have to construct this simple message container.
And here we go.
So now what do we need to do is we have to set the connection factory.
The key to the actual message listener class and so on.
So let's start by providing the connection factory
and for the connection factory of course we're going to use our connection factory to the one that we
defined here.
And for dequeue I'm going to say
my Q and you should note that the method is actually expecting more than one Q But you can of course
provide any number of cues because with this way you might be wanting to listen to more than one.
Q And this is quite possible.
What message listener container for the less part of our connection for our container.
I have to set the actual message listener class and for that purpose I'll say set message listener I'll
provide the rabbit MQ message listener class so I have to provide a new version of that new rabbit.
MQ message listener just like that.
So for the last step I have to return my simple message listener container
and here we go.
We just finished the listener configuration Farrar Aberdare que to test it out and see what's going
to happen.
I'll be seeing you on the next video.